[operator] Manage Virtual Garden `kube-apiserver` Deployment (#7730)
gardener/gardener: docs/concepts/operator.md

The easiest setup is using a local [KinD](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster and the [Skaffold](https://skaffold.dev/) based approach to deploy and develop the `gardener-operator`.

### Setting Up the KinD Cluster (runtime cluster)

```shell
make kind-operator-up
```

This command sets up a new KinD cluster named `gardener-local` and stores the kubeconfig in the `./example/gardener-local/kind/operator/kubeconfig` file.

> It might be helpful to copy this file to `$HOME/.kube/config`, since you will need to target this KinD cluster multiple times.
Alternatively, make sure to set your `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to `./example/gardener-local/kind/operator/kubeconfig` for all future steps via `export KUBECONFIG=example/gardener-local/kind/operator/kubeconfig`.
 
All of the following steps assume that you are using this kubeconfig.

### Setting Up Gardener Operator

```shell
make operator-up
```

> This will first build the base image (which might take a bit if you do it for the first time).

Reviewer: Is it really just one image or do we build multiple images?

```suggestion
This will first build the base images (which might take a bit if you do it for the first time).
```

Afterwards, the Gardener Operator resources will be deployed into the cluster.

### Developing Gardener Operator (Optional)

```shell
make operator-dev
```

This is similar to `make operator-up` but additionally starts a [skaffold dev loop](https://skaffold.dev/docs/workflows/dev/).
After the initial deployment, skaffold starts watching source files.
Once it has detected changes, press any key to trigger a new build and deployment of the changed components.

### Creating a `Garden`

In order to create a garden, just run:

```shell
kubectl apply -f example/operator/20-garden.yaml
```

You can wait for the `Garden` to be ready by running:

```shell
./hack/usage/wait-for.sh garden garden Reconciled
```

Alternatively, you can run `kubectl get garden` and wait for the `RECONCILED` status to reach `True`:

```shell
NAME     RECONCILED    AGE
garden   Progressing   1s
```

(Optional): Instead of creating above `Garden` resource manually, you could execute the e2e tests by running:

```shell
make test-e2e-local-operator
```

#### Accessing the Virtual Garden Cluster

> ⚠️ Please note that in this setup, the virtual garden cluster is not accessible by default when you download the kubeconfig and try to communicate with them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
⚠️ Please note that in this setup, the virtual garden cluster is not accessible by default when you download the kubeconfig and try to communicate with it.
```

> The reason is that your host most probably cannot resolve the DNS names of the clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reason is that your host most probably cannot resolve the DNS name of the cluster.
```

Multiple virtual clusters are not supported yet by the local setup because there is only one port mapping.

Hence, if you want to access the virtual garden cluster, you have to run the following command which will extend your `/etc/hosts` file with the required information to make the DNS names resolvable:

```shell
cat <<EOF | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts

# Manually created to access local Gardener virtual garden cluster.
# TODO: Remove this again when the virtual garden cluster access is no longer required.
127.0.0.1 api.virtual-garden.local.gardener.cloud
EOF
```

To access the virtual garden, you can acquire a `kubeconfig` by

```shell

> kubectl -n garden get secret -l name=user-kubeconfig -o jsonpath={..data.kubeconfig} | base64 -d > /tmp/virtual-garden-kubeconfig

Reviewer: Not necessarily required, but I am a bit confused by the `..` in the below command.

```suggestion
kubectl -n garden get secret -l name=user-kubeconfig -o jsonpath='{.data.kubeconfig}' | base64 -d > /tmp/virtual-garden-kubeconfig
```

Author: It's needed, or? The command returns a list of secrets (potentially), so we need `..` instead of `.`?!

Reviewer: Good point. I usually utilise a similar command, which just targets a single secret. (Also, I might not be the jsonpath expert and have not seen `..` used this way before.)

> If once set, removing `.spec.virtualCluster.controlPlane.highAvailability` again is not supported.

The `virtual-garden-kube-apiserver` `Deployment` is exposed via a `Service` of type `LoadBalancer` with the same name.
In the future, we might switch to exposing it via Istio, similar to how the `kube-apiservers` of shoot clusters are exposed.

> Like for the `Shoot` API, the version of the virtual garden cluster is controlled via `.spec.virtualCluster.kubernetes.version`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to the `Shoot` API, the version of the virtual garden cluster is controlled via `.spec.virtualCluster.kubernetes.version`.
```

> Similarly, specific configuration for the control plane components can be provided in the same section, e.g. via `.spec.virtualCluster.kubernetes.kubeAPIServer` for the `kube-apiserver`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Likewise, specific configuration for the control plane components can be provided in the same section, e.g. via `.spec.virtualCluster.kubernetes.kubeAPIServer` for the `kube-apiserver`.
```

For the virtual cluster, it is essential to provide a DNS domain via `.spec.virtualCluster.dns.domain`.
**The respective DNS record is not managed by `gardener-operator` and should be manually created and pointed to the load balancer IP of the `virtual-garden-kube-apiserver` `Service`.**
The DNS domain is used for the `server` in the kubeconfig, and for configuring the `--external-hostname` flag of the API server.

> It is also mandatory to provide an IPv4 CIDR for the service network of the virtual cluster via `.spec.virtualCluster.networking.services`.

Reviewer: Is IPv4 really mandatory here or could it also work directly with IPv6?

Author: For now, IPv4 is mandatory since future evolvement of GOP will make according assumptions (Gardener control plane needs to be connected to the virtual cluster). I'd like to keep the IPv6 out-of-scope for now. It can probably be adapted very easily in a separate PR if needed.

Reviewer: Ok.
